Jonathan Figg: Okay, we are doing the hunting for Michael baby.
Jonathan Figg: Needed to turn on.
Jonathan Figg: Need to turn on your sound.
Jonathan Figg: There we go. Can you hear me okay
Michael Bailey: Can you hear me, are you
Jonathan Figg: Good.
Michael Bailey: Can you hear me.
Jonathan Figg: Yes, I can.
Michael Bailey: Okay.
Michael Bailey: Dr. P.
Jonathan Figg: I am, yeah, Michael. Hi, how are you
Michael Bailey: Oh, I'm trying to do try and do better.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. All right, so we're doing your intake today for right heart.
Jonathan Figg: And for some kind of history of opioid use. Tell me, what can I do for you today.
Michael Bailey: Haven't
Jonathan Figg: Started, can you can you see if you can turn on your speaker phone
Jonathan Figg: Since you're
Michael Bailey: Was I'm not very good.
Jonathan Figg: That's okay.
Jonathan Figg: Somewhere around where you found the option to turn on this. Hopefully there's an option to turn
Wrong.
Michael Bailey: Okay.
Michael Bailey: Can you hear me a little bit easier. And as working
Michael Bailey: Yes, I can hear you. Right.
Jonathan Figg: And then second thing, it seems like you're, you might have kind of a spotty connection. I'm going to turn off your video so that we just have the audio because that tends to help us keep a connection better. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: All right, let's try that.
Michael Bailey: This is a, this is a telephone. Oh.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, that's okay.
Michael Bailey: She telephone
Michael Bailey: This is a real cheap telephone
Jonathan Figg: That's okay, no problem.
So,
Michael Bailey: About Obama phone. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So how can I help you today.
Michael Bailey: Well, I'm I was having I'm having I was having problems with the opium using opium. I've been using for almost like about 30 years old I used to. I was shooting not quit for a while and then
Michael Bailey: I'll start. I was working for this cup mean I started having bad backgrounds and I was giving medication. It wasn't working all that good. So I started back using again to opium part of the pain.
Michael Bailey: No, I wasn't.
Michael Bailey: Like, you need to get I was trying to get rid of the brain flustered appeals. I was getting so it started opium started taking over. You know,
Michael Bailey: You know, just Rick into my life, you know,
Michael Bailey: And so, uh, you know, so now, just like out of control. So I'm trying to get going to get off of
Jonathan Figg: Okay, and tell me about what you mean that it's out of control. Now,
Michael Bailey: Well, it's just taken over my life. I'm not able to do
Michael Bailey: Get out and communicate and stuff. And like I'm on disability. So I don't have a lot of money. You know, you know, our disability is you don't be money just enough to pay the bills and stuff and then that's it.
Michael Bailey: You know, I started
Michael Bailey: Back again a few almost like a cup been a couple years now.
Mm hmm.
Michael Bailey: No, I'm trying to get off of it.
Michael Bailey: Okay, nice meal. Gotcha. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: How much, how much money, roughly, do you spend on. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Oh,
Michael Bailey: About a couple hundred dollars within a week.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And so given being
Jonathan Figg: serious financial thing for you. Yeah.
Michael Bailey: Was majorly okay
Jonathan Figg: That about how many hours a day do you spend either getting opium or using open
Michael Bailey: All day
Jonathan Figg: All day long. You think about
Michael Bailey: A
Jonathan Figg: You think about it all day long.
Michael Bailey: Pretty much.
Jonathan Figg: All right, and
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, about how much do you use per day.
Michael Bailey: I'm
Michael Bailey: Probably about
Michael Bailey: 30 or 40
Michael Bailey: I use my like a quarter you like about a
Michael Bailey: Oh, about a gram a day. So I'm like, Dad. Graham nap.
Jonathan Figg: And now you're up to. Are you saying 30 or 40 grams.
Michael Bailey: Well, it's like about we see want to see.
Michael Bailey: About two grams.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Michael Bailey: But to bring the piano.
Michael Bailey: would pretty much when I can get it.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah.
Michael Bailey: I got, I know, I know people, you know,
Michael Bailey: And so, you know, finally out of money, you know, say I could use it gets
Michael Bailey: A try to avoid doing a lot of room.
Michael Bailey: You know, to get it like taking things from people
Michael Bailey: But, uh,
Michael Bailey: You know, it's just, it's just, it's much, you know, I'm trying to get back on on my medication. I was taking was working, but
Michael Bailey: You know, it was like it would it would the pain reliever would last. Okay. You're saying no. So I started
Michael Bailey: I started adding on to the to the OH I added the opium to what you know.
Jonathan Figg: What what medication was that that you were taking
Michael Bailey: Taking up I was taking my, my, I was taking a
Michael Bailey: New articles and muscle relaxers so much
Jonathan Figg: Okay, all right, Danny.
Jonathan Figg: Where are you taking more and more Norco and it wasn't working.
Michael Bailey: When I was taking oh
Michael Bailey: I lost my normal due to the due to use the opium month my normal monarchos and stone was going articles was stopped.
Jonathan Figg: Because
Michael Bailey: You know you did.
Michael Bailey: For Scott. Yeah.
Michael Bailey: Hey, we're able to subscribe you to Narcos if you're using. Gotcha. So like I said, no one's working, but it's just started
Michael Bailey: I was just getting going for more relief you know me.
Michael Bailey: And that's why I started whoa okay and are using
Jonathan Figg: Some kind of urine test and saw that you had in your urine.
Jonathan Figg: You still there.
Michael Bailey: Mike, please give me. No, no, I can't. Okay, hey yeah this a record. Oh, you got record. Oh you recording and I'll see regarding popped up.
Jonathan Figg: Right. Okay. So, so I'll explain that real quick. We record the session so that we can make our notes from them so that I don't have to sit here in time.
Michael Bailey: Okay, yeah, just
Jonathan Figg: All I'm talking to you. Yeah, so I can focus on
Oh, yeah.
Michael Bailey: Sorry, that's all. There's no problem.
Jonathan Figg: So I'll just
Michael Bailey: I'll just
Jonathan Figg: So, so you're Norco stop because you came up positive for the OPM until your doctor stopped it.
Jonathan Figg: And so now you're using
Jonathan Figg: So the for pain relief and to keep yourself out of withdrawal. Right.
Michael Bailey: Yes. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Tell me about what happens if you stop using opium.
Michael Bailey: Well, I'll start getting sick last sweating a lot about body aches and stuff was rambling trembling and sweating and stuff. Real bad if
Jonathan Figg: Not a good feeling. How long does it take for you to go start having those symptoms since your last use
Michael Bailey: Will take some I don't I try not to get I'll try to avoid getting in that in that
Michael Bailey: Going through it. You know what it takes about like about if I if I go like
Michael Bailey: A day
Michael Bailey: Or day and an alpha some like one or two days. That's when
Jonathan Figg: It starts about two days after your last time.
Michael Bailey: Yeah. What is when it starts about one and a half days I start sweating real real bad. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Aching and stuff like my joints and stuff.
Michael Bailey: Oh man, it's not good.
All right. Okay.
Okay.
Michael Bailey: This was my appetite and then our diarrhea, constipation and stuff, diarrhea, oh man. Mm hmm.
Michael Bailey: So that medication. So
Michael Bailey: Like this stuff right here. Can you see that
Jonathan Figg: Hang on just a second. I'm going to turn your video back on you can show me.
Jonathan Figg: It should, it should pop up the thing to turn your video back on.
Michael Bailey: Okay, it says start my video.
Yeah. Yes.
Jonathan Figg: There we go. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Do this, right.
So,
Michael Bailey: Right here for like a
Michael Bailey: Like if I get constipated stuff.
Michael Bailey: And then once I get constipated.
Michael Bailey: And did not take a
Michael Bailey: Take these things right here.
Michael Bailey: You'll see.
Michael Bailey: Here it
Michael Bailey: Is like, up and down, constipation, diarrhea, constipation, you know me. Okay. And do you
Michael Bailey: Know, so this is not good with aches and brain hours when I just need to get out of my life, you know, like a CMO disability. So you know I'm saying I'm living here and there, you'll see that stable I pick up and take them off.
Michael Bailey: So I'm just trying to get it out of my life, you know, I need to real real bad. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: All right. And so how did you get referred to bright heart. How do you find bright heart.
Michael Bailey: Well, I was from TV. I was watching TV, one day, and I was going through. It was a list of a
Michael Bailey: treatment programs and I was seeing on TV.
Michael Bailey: Oh, for
Michael Bailey: Trying to get I was been trying to get this email for like about almost like a six months. Well, I, I was started in a I was going to a place to mid mark.
Michael Bailey: With that, yes.
Michael Bailey: And no. They was given given me.
Michael Bailey: A methodology, but
Michael Bailey: Having problems with the methadone and make me
Michael Bailey: Again didn't agree with my body makes me throw up and stuff, you know,
Okay.
Michael Bailey: I don't know, it was. Yeah. It wasn't good.
Jonathan Figg: How much methadone, where you what
Michael Bailey: I was saying I was like 40 I was taking 40 milligrams a day.
Jonathan Figg: And how long ago was that
Michael Bailey: Oh, it was
Michael Bailey: I went to times I try. I went to Taiwan time it was it was by like for almost a year.
Michael Bailey: And they're not just stopped.
Michael Bailey: Being about you. I had a die I die, I had a problem with my with my colon I bled to death. Marc Bolan busted on me.
Michael Bailey: Okay. And I went to. I wasn't asked her life almost couple weeks. Then I got out and you know I got back over to the method on again.
Michael Bailey: So she took a big advantage of
Michael Bailey: Us.
Michael Bailey: When I got to ask you because I might not start back again, but
Michael Bailey: I don't know, I just, I was having problem with the method on. So I started using
Michael Bailey: This roster me
Your
Michael Bailey: Nails an hour or somebody was telling me about some Suboxone
Michael Bailey: Okay, another another build up.
Michael Bailey: I had written down.
Michael Bailey: Starts with a be beautiful.
Michael Bailey: You don't want to be buprenorphine something. Yeah.
Michael Bailey: Yeah. So tell me about that. So today, we're seeing also boxing is real good. So
Michael Bailey: I was trying to try something else. You know I'm saying. So back to something just to get me off. You know me.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Michael Bailey: So you said
Jonathan Figg: You said, Okay, what are the OB okay and
Jonathan Figg: Go, was it that you were last on methadone. How long ago was that
Michael Bailey: Oh, it's been like since
Michael Bailey: It was it was a I think May of last year. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: That you stopped.
Michael Bailey: I stopped in method because I started getting sick.
Michael Bailey: Gotcha started throwing up and stuff. We don't do not only have transportation as though, and I take it out. Take a lot of takes no
Michael Bailey: Sleeping pills and sleeping three years. My wife got to know me, I was in the incident or this drive by shooting and my wife was cute. So I started to have a lot of sight Milner problem solving problems.
Michael Bailey: So they started giving me medication for that. So it was off me and I don't have no transportation, so I couldn't get to the place we had to be a certain amount of time and I couldn't make it feel make it, you have to wait. The next day, and then it was making me sick. And so out, you know,
Michael Bailey: Opium again. I understand. Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: You met one of the things you mentioned there is a you don't have transportation so Suboxone the medication that we use to help people stop other things and kind of recovery.
Jonathan Figg: In your life again. That's a medication that gets dispensed by a pharmacy, we'd be able to get to a pharmacy.
Michael Bailey: Yes, I can get to a form seen right
Jonathan Figg: I just want to make sure Okay super. Um, let's talk about certain things you mentioned there. You said you're on a number of other medications. Can you tell me what medications, those are
Michael Bailey: Yola take
Michael Bailey: Web a hybrid branch appeals. Well, yeah.
Michael Bailey: I take
Michael Bailey: Me gagging. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Sir, Sir wheels. You're not take trouser don't
Michael Bailey: Take
Michael Bailey: Am I got to P. O. Box around your zone where I got my medication all around me. I got me, please.
Michael Bailey: Take another pod is cola bins, a
Michael Bailey: Bit.
Michael Bailey: And this is even in a vanilla bean burrito.
Jonathan Figg: Bonanza Pro. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Open as a pre. Oh, and I take
Michael Bailey: I said a sec wheels. I take
Michael Bailey: Zap Zap wreck so
Michael Bailey: Like I don't
Michael Bailey: Yeah, because I have to be I have bad dreams and stuff. No, you're not. And I have trouble trouble with prayer, nor your anxiety and depression and stuff like that. Okay, no.
Michael Bailey: No.
Michael Bailey: Not take my breath fresh feels I tried to take vitamins.
Jonathan Figg: So we got there were bananas are pro Seroquel and tries it down on what other medications you still take
Michael Bailey: And do not take my take my, uh,
Michael Bailey: Oh and mellow mellow pain. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah.
Michael Bailey: That's my rep recipe.
Jonathan Figg: So is that the necessary.
Michael Bailey: did not take metro
Michael Bailey: Pro.
Yeah.
Michael Bailey: Yeah okay, I'll take some I take, I gotta
Michael Bailey: Take
Michael Bailey: Village reels.
Michael Bailey: And
Michael Bailey: I guess that's about it right now.
Jonathan Figg: Why do you take Benadryl
Michael Bailey: What they have with my sleep and stuff, kind of, you know, I take a lot of things to you know
Michael Bailey: Because I have a problem going sleep, you know me, I took me with my son.
Jonathan Figg: And are these medications. The Seroquel the transit zone or the Zyprexa was prescribed by a psychiatrist.
Michael Bailey: Yes. What through a site for net my primary care doctor gives them to me. Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. All right. Are you on any kind of pill for depression.
Michael Bailey: Depression. Yeah.
Michael Bailey: Oh well within the peels I've take your they don't do nothing for depression.
Michael Bailey: Like I said, I don't know.
Michael Bailey: Syrup. We'll all do zap wreck. So I was one on work. Don't Sanford, I'll stay depressed. Anyway, cuz I never, never, never get never lose the third see I got both of those, and my body or our guys sat up.
Michael Bailey: And then I got still got Buddhism in my body right now so I never can get rid of this one. My wife got killed. You know, saying he died in my arms 30 years you know zoom together so sorry. I know, I know no medication. DON'T REALLY DON'T DO. No, no. I mean, Aaron Raisa no
Michael Bailey: scars and stuff name my kids, you know, saying that, you know, they merge them is going to see them. And, you know, and sort of depression never goes away, you know,
Jonathan Figg: Right. Okay, just trying to understand what you know everything that's going on to. All right. And do you have any allergies.
Michael Bailey: Yeah, I have a and also I take
Michael Bailey: Oh, where the Benadryl supposed to be for my LG to
Michael Bailey: And then a
Michael Bailey: Where my LG I've just have like the allergy a fever, like that.
Jonathan Figg: What about some medications.
Michael Bailey: What my medication that I'll just take your medication, like I said, with my doctor said to be Israel's and, you know,
Jonathan Figg: Are you allergic to any
Medication
Michael Bailey: No, I'm not allergic during the medication.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, that's what I needed to make sure. Okay, and
Jonathan Figg: Okay, and you mentioned that you had surgeries. When you got shot and
Jonathan Figg: Have you had any resets or
Michael Bailey: Whatever the recent surgery was then in May.
Michael Bailey: My colon, colon, I used to drink. I used to drink alcohol.
Michael Bailey: And our quit for a lot of years last year's do not started, I started back for a few months. And I think no, no more knicker Miss would my interfere with my colon.
Michael Bailey: bled to death, literally, I've laid out because my colon.
Michael Bailey: Echo eight or eight more colon, something happened to Dr. See it, and so it caused me to bleed bleed out disoriented.
Michael Bailey: So mokoena and backup. But whatever you do, and that are we ever stopped drinking again.
Michael Bailey: Me.
Jonathan Figg: Not just so you don't drink any alcohol. No.
Michael Bailey: No, no more. We know okay
Michael Bailey: If I can get off the bus and get off this opium. I'll be I'll be quit. If I get one mo geez opportunity to get off. I never do this again.
Jonathan Figg: Tell me something, you said you started, you started back on the opium for pain because of your pain. What kind of pain you
Michael Bailey: Still have
Michael Bailey: That's when I first started
Michael Bailey: When I was using when I would use needles. When I first started when I read my back on my job.
Gotcha.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. All right. And so, but but at some point. Has your pain gone away.
Michael Bailey: No, my pain is still there.
Jonathan Figg: You still have
No.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Is it back pain still
Michael Bailey: I have, they call it a herniated disease spine degenerated disease bias. I have herniated discs from my see something in my neck all way down to my emails.
Michael Bailey: all way down my back from my neck all the way down to my lower back then I broke both my feet. When I was in the military broke, broke up.
Michael Bailey: You know, so I got just got a lot of pain noses.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, I understand. I'm just trying to make sure I understand everything that's going on. So let's talk about that nation Suboxone
That you were talking
Jonathan Figg: Yes.
Jonathan Figg: Have you ever used that before.
Michael Bailey: Oh, I tried it one time and effect. I have some right now.
Michael Bailey: Well, I got some I've tried it, you'll see, you know, yeah, I've used it.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, you bought it from a friend or someone
Michael Bailey: Was somebody gave me some, you know, okay, you know, and I'm going to give
Michael Bailey: Me. Where did you know he got it from. I think he must got from his doctor yeah that's tried it, you know, saying, you know, it worked.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, okay. So you got rid of the withdrawal. You didn't have any more.
Michael Bailey: It didn't, it didn't. I don't know if it was only like a it was a, like a like a couple of a sin, a sin strips, put on your toes. Yes.
Michael Bailey: No.
Michael Bailey: You know when I started getting when I started getting a star. Go to withdraw started going starting to start coming on. We're not took them and then it stopped it. But then, you know, it will just only like a couple of scripts, you'll see
Michael Bailey: So I'm just going to
Jonathan Figg: Make sure I understand what you said that when you took the Suboxone strip. It made you go into withdrawal at first. Correct.
Michael Bailey: No, I wanted to withdraw before the Suboxone
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Michael Bailey: Well, when I took the Suboxone stop the withdrawals.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, making sure I understand. Good. Okay, what do you know what the dose was on a strips.
Michael Bailey: To like they were eight milligrams trips
Jonathan Figg: Okay, and you took one of them. How long did that last that you weren't in withdraw.
Michael Bailey: Well, we're not if you if you go the withdrawals it last. I wouldn't, I wouldn't let it go, you know, say it too low, because I never ever find me something to
Jonathan Figg: Gotcha.
Michael Bailey: To get you get out of that.
Jonathan Figg: When you took out of eight milligrams strip under your time, did it make you sleepy.
Michael Bailey: Yeah, the making here to make you sleepy. This Oregon takes away. I mean, you don't make you sleep, sleep, the bill. I guess it took about two more. But, uh, I kind of like a
Michael Bailey: Like
Michael Bailey: A took a half a strip and down to, you know, I didn't take Warren whole one at a time.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Michael Bailey: I took a half. Oh no, you know, but then they were going, you know, like I said it wasn't that many, you know, like once one is once per pack.
Jonathan Figg: Right.
And so you took
Jonathan Figg: The took the other half.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, and
Michael Bailey: I was trying to make our time to make your last, you know, did you
Jonathan Figg: Basically at the same time, or with us was that spaced out
Michael Bailey: Well, within a few days, you know,
Jonathan Figg: Within a few days. Okay. So you took the half a stripper or just, you know, by itself, when you took
Michael Bailey: Just to have
Jonathan Figg: The first time did it make you sleepy.
Michael Bailey: Yeah, but I took that and do that, let's do it. I'll see your ad opium, you'll see in a minute. I wouldn't do as much opium when I took the A when I did do Sebastian.
Michael Bailey: Know,
Michael Bailey: A little bit that I don't see it was it was already like governor strips.
Okay, so
Michael Bailey: There's the bar. I wouldn't use
Michael Bailey: The opium as much as ID fighting. They have nothing. No.
Jonathan Figg: No. So let's talk about the medication and let's talk about what we do with bright heart so Suboxone is a brand name for the medication.
Jonathan Figg: Of you moving right buprenorphine is an opiate like
Michael Bailey: OPM is in the
Jonathan Figg: That's the kind of drug. It is as a kind of medication is and it has specific
Michael Bailey: On your brain.
Jonathan Figg: So it has a pleasurable sensation opiates. Do they turn off pain they make you sleepy.
Jonathan Figg: Yes, stop you from breathing taken off. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Well that's Suboxone buprenorphine is what we consider it to be a safer opiate because it does not turn off your breathing the way other opiates do
Jonathan Figg: It could make you sleep it off of it, but it has a
Jonathan Figg: ceiling effect. So taking more and more and more doesn't have any additional effects beyond a certain doubts and so it makes it difficult to overdose on so
Jonathan Figg: Tends to be safer from that.
Michael Bailey: So,
Jonathan Figg: Tends to have
Jonathan Figg: A lower potential for abuse because it doesn't have the same high that other opiates do so it's a little bit easier to keep
Michael Bailey: All of
Jonathan Figg: But
Jonathan Figg: I want you
Jonathan Figg: And that currently you are dependent on opiates. If you stop taking them. You go into withdrawal right nothing that we
Jonathan Figg: Were do can suddenly change that there's no overnight magic change. So you're currently
Jonathan Figg: On opiates and if we change you over and start you on Suboxone you will still be dependent on opiates will be dependent on the Suboxone and if you suddenly stop it, you'll go into withdrawal. I want you to understand that, so
Michael Bailey: Yes.
Jonathan Figg: You treatment. It's a long term plan to slowly to burst, we get people out of withdrawal. So they're not having cravings.
Michael Bailey: To other stuff.
Jonathan Figg: They reuse. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So that they feel stay all on a doses Suboxone their functional, they can do the things that they want. They don't have to spend all their time and money, looking for other stuff. That's the first thing. The
Michael Bailey: Second thing is that
Jonathan Figg: Over the long term. If the plan is to get you off entirely. Then we slowly taper the dose down very. Yes. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So that, though, that there's a manageable plan and so that you have time to be in a support group to do therapy so that you can develop
Michael Bailey: The skills to recovery. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Yes.
Jonathan Figg: It's important that you understand. Okay. So the other thing about buprenorphine so buprenorphine Suboxone so when it, when you take it. It has
Jonathan Figg: It holds on to the receptor in your brain tighter. And what that means is it has a blocking effect if you're on Suboxone and you take other stuff. The other stuff have the same effect. The Suboxone
Me.
Michael Bailey: Let me plug my phone in
Michael Bailey: Okay, is losing George
Jonathan Figg: Jones. Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Let's not let's not run out.
Jonathan Figg: Of battery.
Michael Bailey: Okay, there we go.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so I want you to understand, one of the one of the
Michael Bailey: useful thing to hear me. Yeah, I can hear.
Jonathan Figg: Good. Okay, so one of the useful things is as Suboxone has a blocking effect, it will block the effect of other opiates. So if you're on Suboxone and if you're on a good dose.
Jonathan Figg: Then one you should have less craving to use OPM because you won't be in withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: And two, if you do take opium. It's not going to have the same effect. It's going to have much less effect or no effect at all because it's Suboxone lock it, which is useful because we want you to have every reason to stop using opium right
Jonathan Figg: Hello. Does that make sense.
Jonathan Figg: Religion.
I
Think I lost
I lost the band connection.
pause the recording until he comes.
Back.
Jonathan Figg: You need to turn on your sound.
Jonathan Figg: Can you hear me ok I
Michael Bailey: Can hear me now.
Jonathan Figg: Yes. Wonderful. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: I'm gonna I'm gonna stop your video again because it seems to keep us connected better. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Can you
Michael Bailey: Use these phones, a little charge real fast.
Michael Bailey: When I looked up with I've seen it going down. That's what I mentioned it was
Michael Bailey: Was it wasn't long enough to go off yet. I mean it didn't seem that. Can you hear me.
Jonathan Figg: That's okay. Yeah, I can hear you.
Michael Bailey: I can barely
Michael Bailey: You need to turn there you
Jonathan Figg: Need to turn the speakerphone back on.
Jonathan Figg: So see if you can see if you can find that option again for the speaker.
Jonathan Figg: There we go. Sounds like you got it.
Jonathan Figg: Can you hear me.
Michael Bailey: Okay. Mine is not acting right
Jonathan Figg: Now. Yeah, I can hear you. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Can you hear me okay
Michael Bailey: Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: All right. Super. So before we lost our connection. We're talking about the medication and the benefits that it has. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so, so the benefits that it has is it's going to get you out of withdrawal. It's going to help
Michael Bailey: Yes.
Jonathan Figg: You can help stop your cravings to use OPM and
Jonathan Figg: And it will block the effect. If you do take opium. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Well, yes.
Jonathan Figg: All right the way Brian heart health works. Our organization is it were a recovery program were centered around weekly support groups. So we put people into a support.
Michael Bailey: With us
Jonathan Figg: On over zoom just like we're having a conversation now except with a group of people
Michael Bailey: Yes.
Jonathan Figg: Who have had similar issues with opiates and are in various stages of recovery, so they can support each other. It's kind of like an A, we
Michael Bailey: Have
Jonathan Figg: A meeting. It's about an
Michael Bailey: hour long
Jonathan Figg: It meets at the same time each
Jonathan Figg: Week and it's led by a counselor or therapist who has a history with addiction treatment. Okay.
Michael Bailey: And it starts. Yes.
Jonathan Figg: A check in with your doctor to make sure you're on the right dose of medication that you have a good supply. So you're not about to run out and
Michael Bailey: There's
Jonathan Figg: Who are in various stages of tapering off their dose that that's done in a slow and controlled manner. So you get lots of contact with your doctor does all of that.
Yes. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Okay, yes.
Jonathan Figg: One of the important things is we need to understand is to start Suboxone, you have to be in a little bit of withdrawal because
Jonathan Figg: If you have opium in your system when you take the Suboxone it will put you into a much worse withdrawal for a little while. It will make you wish you
Ran
Jonathan Figg: Yeah.
Michael Bailey: I read up on. I do a lot of reading on it.
Jonathan Figg: Good. So that's why we talked
Jonathan Figg: Earlier. Now your pattern of symptoms for withdrawal and how long they take to start so
Jonathan Figg: When you start withdrawal about a day and a half after you've taken your last Stokes, that's when you would potentially okay to take your first dose of Suboxone. Does that make sense.
Michael Bailey: Yes. Good.
Jonathan Figg: Based on what you told me about your previous experience with Suboxone I think that half of the strip which is four milligrams would be a good dose to
Jonathan Figg: Start
Jonathan Figg: Because that gets you out of withdrawal.
Michael Bailey: Yes.
Jonathan Figg: But what will determine your dose is so
Jonathan Figg: Once we get the medication. Let's say you end up taking your first dose in the morning, you're going to wait a couple hours after you dissolve that half strip under your tongue to find out. Okay, are you
Jonathan Figg: All are not if you're not on withdrawal. That's fine. You don't have to take any more.
Jonathan Figg: Unless
Michael Bailey: You see us.
Jonathan Figg: Having withdrawal symptoms again in the evening or by the next warning when you should take your next dose. If you did start to have withdrawal symptoms and you need to go up on the dose to a full strip
Michael Bailey: Okay, okay.
Michael Bailey: Otherwise, they
Jonathan Figg: The same dose of Suboxone every day we want it to feel like any other medication, just like you take your pill for blood pressure every day. We don't want it to be.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, it's just a regular maintenance medication to help keep you functional. Does that make sense. Good. We don't want the dose to
Jonathan Figg: Go what
Jonathan Figg: Do you feel okay, good, good.
Michael Bailey: Okay.
Michael Bailey: Okay. All right, so
Jonathan Figg: What I want to check on right now with you here with me is we're going to make sure we have the correct pharmacy for you.
Jonathan Figg: Alright is right eight on Gerber road the correct pharmacy for you.
Michael Bailey: Yes yes yes is
Jonathan Figg: The last thing we need to figure out is, which group, you could join now I have
Jonathan Figg: Support groups that I'm part of at 3pm on Tuesday and Thursday.
Jonathan Figg: Would I serve those work for you.
Michael Bailey: Tuesday, Thursday. Thursday.
Michael Bailey: Afternoon.
Jonathan Figg: Thursday at 3pm.
Michael Bailey: I have one spots.
Michael Bailey: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Would that work for you.
Michael Bailey: Yes, that'll work. Right, okay so
Jonathan Figg: Thursday at 3pm. We need every week.
Jonathan Figg: It's about an hour law.
Michael Bailey: What you have to do. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: What you have to do is call the virtual clinic, which is the number you called the for me.
Michael Bailey: Okay, my
Jonathan Figg: Desk of a medical office. Okay, you call them about the
Jonathan Figg: Lady. Yeah, that's right, yeah.
Michael Bailey: You call it
Jonathan Figg: Yes, correct.
Michael Bailey: Okay then.
Jonathan Figg: You call them about a half hour before
Michael Bailey: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Sure, if they need you to fill out a questionnaire or do any other paperwork or anything like that you check in.
Jonathan Figg: And then don't give you the number for the group just like they gave you my number today, but it's but
Jonathan Figg: It's not use this number that we're on it will be a different number. So don't give you the number for the group and the group meets through
Michael Bailey: Me now. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Thursday at 3pm. Great. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Well, I just wrote down Thursday at 3pm.
Jonathan Figg: And you're going to call them about 230 to 45 somewhere on there.
Michael Bailey: Okay, okay.
Jonathan Figg: And then the last thing is that I'm going to send a prescription for the Suboxone to your pharmacy. Okay.
Oh,
Jonathan Figg: And I'm going to send that, you know, right now.
Jonathan Figg: And I want you to away our
Michael Bailey: And then I want you to
Jonathan Figg: The pharmacy and find out where they able to fill it, just in case they had some problem, like if they didn't have the medication and stock or they need a
Jonathan Figg: Form or something from us. And that way if they tell you that there's any problem getting it filled, you can call the virtual clinic our virtual clinic back again so that we can fix whatever
Michael Bailey: Not okay
Michael Bailey: Okay, yeah, the doctor at the farms have been going to the pharmacy for by like 15 years so are
Michael Bailey: They I'm pretty I'm pretty well known. I think I'm I think I'm new fussing repeals okay right probably today, you know,
Michael Bailey: Anyways, pretty well known at their forms you guys
Jonathan Figg: So it just if you have any problem getting the medication Suboxone you're going to call your
Michael Bailey: Clinic.
The virtual clinic. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Great, so
Michael Bailey: We can. So there's anything that's
Jonathan Figg: You know, causing a delay.
Michael Bailey: So we're number. The word chocolate is the number to be well before I called you. Yes, correct. Okay. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. And then the last thing we have to figure out is, when was your last dose of opium.
Michael Bailey: Oh,
Michael Bailey: About just before. Before I talked before I called you.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so we talked before that, that some time has to pass between the last time you take opium and the first time you start on Suboxone and then you need to be in a little bit of withdrawal. So we talked about your symptoms. I'm going to give you a prescription medication called Clonidine
Michael Bailey: Help
Jonathan Figg: Decrease the withdrawal so that it's not so nasty.
Michael Bailey: So that you can, they're
Jonathan Figg: A bit of time until you take that first dose of Suboxone okay
Michael Bailey: Okay, good.
Jonathan Figg: Because you need to be unfortunately just part of this process, you're going to have to be a little bit uncomfortable. And then you're going to take this a box on and it'll make you feel better. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Okay.
All right.
Jonathan Figg: What questions or concerns do you have, you know,
Michael Bailey: Oh, not, not, not really.
Michael Bailey: Because, like I say, I do a lot of reading
Michael Bailey: On Medicaid iterating okay oh on the internet. Okay, and
Michael Bailey: I'm pretty
Michael Bailey: Familiar with it.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Michael Bailey: But ya know that you have to wait usually like when I was taking a when you, it sounds like from eight to 10 hours. You'll see it after you after you don't ever use are the opium.
Michael Bailey: Says eight to 10 hours of so you don't see him before you start using a any kind of like Suboxone or medications for withdrawals and stuff and so
Michael Bailey: We're doing this you know I'm saying then also I really like you just said that you have to get up be off into a good portion of withdraw.
Jonathan Figg: Yes, in
Michael Bailey: His area there to see
Michael Bailey: When you start feeling really really bad when you when you start taking this about
Jonathan Figg: That's right.
Michael Bailey: Because that was really
Jonathan Figg: Good, good.
Michael Bailey: Like I said,
Michael Bailey: A while ago. Okay. No saying investigate you know i'm i'm really serious about getting off gets opium and this is really
Michael Bailey: Just destroying me. You don't seem to be able to go out and buy me you'll see like a little money I get I used to be able to go out and buy me a parachute payments, you know, me or something like that, you know,
Michael Bailey: You know, I was getting food eating foods being served long so when they didn't, you know, didn't cut that off. You know me. So, you know, after I paid you know I'm saying my bills and stuff in this, you know, man.
Michael Bailey: The resident Moon is all good is bad. No, I'm not. I'm too old. I'm too old, you'll see that you know in my key is you know say it's embarrassing.
Michael Bailey: You'll see him to be louder and then you got some kind of substance controlling your life you know me, I don't feel good about it and I need to get need to get rid of, you know, okay.
We're gonna do our best.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Michael Bailey: Yeah.
Michael Bailey: I'm also one of my now well
Jonathan Figg: And then
Jonathan Figg: I want to say.
Jonathan Figg: And then tomorrow night would be at least 24 hours after you took your last dose, like you said, you understand, you need to feel that
Michael Bailey: Yes.
Jonathan Figg: The in some way.
Michael Bailey: To get
Jonathan Figg: And you're going to start taking you're going to start with half of the film. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And yeah.
Michael Bailey: Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: We will expect to see you on Thursday at 3pm.
Michael Bailey: And I'm going to have a
Jonathan Figg: Four meters follow up with you to make sure you understand how to get in and answer any more questions you have. Okay.
Michael Bailey: Okay.
Michael Bailey: All right, great. So you go
Michael Bailey: So you're going to call it a prescription and is it going to be two different kinds of medications or what is going to be
Jonathan Figg: That's correct one's going to be the Suboxone and
Jonathan Figg: It'd be called Clonidine, and it's going to say as needed for withdrawal symptoms and it's to help you.
Michael Bailey: On
Jonathan Figg: You start having a withdrawal before the 24 hours is past. Okay, it's just going to be a few tablets.
All
Jonathan Figg: The thing that it's going to help the most with it. You said you start feeling really restless inside and sweating and it helps with those two things.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, to help make them a little while you wait so you can take the Suboxone okay
Michael Bailey: Okay.
Michael Bailey: All right, good. Yeah, I got a call. I got a few people that you know like I can call somebody I'm seeing and they have come and pick me up. Take me to the forums.
Jonathan Figg: Great, you know, great.
Michael Bailey: My car. I got a car, but it broke down, it broke down on me. So I'm, I'm in the process of trying to get it fixed. But this stuff right here is, in a way, you know, I can't even get my car.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, all right, all right, I'm going to send you a prescription right now if you run into any problems or you come up with any questions after we hang up here, you can call the virtual clinic and they can help you with the overwhelming majority. Thanks. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: All right, Michael and I lost him. But that was the end of our conversation. Anyway, so I'm an issues prescription. We're going to put them on our Thursday 3pm substance use disorder group my full disclosure report during our conversation and he filled some Norco
Jonathan Figg: At one point, but his peers reporters otherwise empty because she's been buying opium off the street is and I reviewed as as an expert questionnaires and he doesn't currently drink. He does have a history of it, but he doesn't currently drinks are not concerned about
Jonathan Figg: That interaction, but he does take a few other sedating medication circle transfers. It's like that, but we are starting him on a low dose and we'll keep that in mind.
Jonathan Figg: And
Jonathan Figg: He had
Jonathan Figg: He had a normal mental status exam.
His
Jonathan Figg: thoughts were sometimes tangential
Jonathan Figg: His sometimes have a tangential thought process, but otherwise he had a normal interest.